.TH ftpcat 1 "30th August, 2003"
.SH \fBNAME\fP
ftpcat \- Stream files to or from an FTP server
\
.SH \fBSYNOPSIS\fP
\fBftpcat\fP server rname uname [options ...]
\
.SH \fBDESCRIPTION\fP
\fBFtpcat\fP is a simple filter application designed to either stream
the input on \fBstdin\fP to a file on a remote FTP server or stream a
file on a remote FTP server to \fBstdout\fP. An option is also provided
to save the received content to a disk file when streaming from an FTP
server to \fBstdout\fP. The default operation for \fBftpcat\fP is to
stream what is read from \fBstdin\fP to the remote FTP server. This can
be reversed using the \fB-r\fP command line option.

\fBFtpcat\fP requires at least three parameters to perform it's function.
These parameters are:
.TP
\fBserver\fP
The hostname or IP address of the remote FTP server.
.TP
\fBrname\fP
The path to save to or read from on the remote FTP server, relevant to
the given user's home directory.
.TP
\fBuname\fP
The name of the user to log into the remote FTP server as. By default
\fBftpcat\fP will prompt the user for their password when it is required
by the login sequence. Although it's use is not recommended, the \fB-P\fP
option can be used to specify the user's password on the command line.
\
.SS \fBOPTIONS\fP
.TP
\fB-a address\fP
Uses the given address as the source address for this connection so that the
server knows where to connect to for data transfers. By default \fBftpcat\fP
will use the hostname as obtained by the \fBuname(2)\fP system call.
\
.TP
\fB-k file\fP
When streaming received data to \fBstdout\fP (see \fB-r\fP option), this
option tells \fBftpcat\fP to save a copy of the received data to the given
disk file.
\
.TP
\fB-i\fP
Displays what is sent to the server and the server's subsequent replies
on \fBstderr\fP.
\
.TP
\fB-p port\fP
Uses the given port number as the port to use in the connection to the
server.
\
.TP
\fB-P password\fP
Uses the given password for logging into the server. Note that use of this
option is not recommended for reasons that should be obvious.
\
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Specifies receive mode. \fBFtpcat\fP will download a file from the remote
FTP server and output the received data on \fBstdout\fP. The \fB-k\fP option
can be used to save a copy of the received data to a disk file.
\
.TP
\fB-s\fP
Specifies send mode. \fBFtpcat\fP will read from \fBstdin\fP and send the
read data to the remote FTP server. Send mode is the default operating mode
for \fBftpcat\fP.
\
.SH
\fBEXAMPLES\fP
Given here are some example command lines for using \fBftpcat\fP.
.IP
tar -c stuff/ | ftpcat ftp.foo.com stuff.tar bar
.PP
This series of commands will create a \fBtar(1)\fP archive of the
\fBstuff\fP directory and stream it to \fBftp.foo.com\fP, logging
in as \fBbar\fP and saving to \fBstuff.tar\fP. This is a very convenient
method of publishing files to webpages that use FTP upload.
.IP
ftpcat ftp.foo.com c/sc.c bar -r -k sc.c | file -
.PP
This series of commands will use \fBftpcat\fP to retrieve the \fBsc.c\fP
file from the \fBc\fP subdirectory on \fBftp.foo.com\fP. \fBFtpcat\fP will
login as \fBbar\fP and pipe it's output into the standard \fBfile(1)\fP
utility while saving a copy to \fBsc.c\fP. This is a convenient way of
retrieving a file from an FTP server and determining it's type with one
line of commands.
\
.SH
\fBAUTHOR\fP
Owen Klan. E-mail me with comments, questions or even suggestions at
\fBalkerr@yifan.net\fP
